RFC 39: Reduce aws-cdk-lib Package Size (#430)
aws/aws-cdk-rfcs: text/0039-reduce-module-size.md

*Rough calculation: 91 MB = 9.2 MB (aws-sdk) + <1 MB (boto3) + 3x23.18 MB (three
more versions of kubectl) + 12.78 MB (one more major version of awscli)

##### Solution

For the Lambda Layers, there are two different approaches we will take to remove these large assets from `aws-cdk-lib`.

###### Separate npm packages

Use separate npm packages for each `lambda-layer-X` module, which the CDK CLI will
automatically install if not already present in the `node_modules` directory. With
this solution, customers will not have to figure out when they do or do not need
to include these dependencies, and they will not be required to access a public
endpoint besides npm during runtime of their CDK apps. Practically, this
solution breaks down into the following steps.

1. Publish v2 compatible versions of `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-aws-cli`,
   `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-aws-cli`, `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-node-proxy-agent` as
   their own npm packages, separate from `aws-cdk-lib`.
2. Modify the `lambda-layer-X` submodules in `aws-cdk-lib` to not bundle these large
   dependencies themselves, but instead reference the appropriate `Layer` class

>    from the packages in step 1. We will need to do something clever here to make

Reviewer: Do we have a high level idea for this "something clever"? If so, I think it's worth adding in an appendix section so as not to clutter this section but also remove the ambiguity.

Author: That is something we still need to figure out with a POC :) Unless @rix0rrr has any idea? The seed of this idea to use npm packages that we automatically bring in for the customer came from him.

Author: This will be purely an implementation detail of the `Layer` constructs, and actually should not show errors for end users prior to the CDK CLI dynamically loading the dependencies from npm.

# Reduce aws-cdk-lib package size

* **Original Author(s):**: @madeline-k
* **Tracking Issue**: #39
* **API Bar Raiser**: tbd

The AWS CDK v2 framework library, `aws-cdk-lib` contains all packages from AWS
CDK v1 in one monolithic package. While this is a great value for customers in
making dependency management much easier, it has also resulted in increasing the
unpacked npm package size to 238 MB, at the time of writing. This feature

> reduces the size of the package to 100 MB.

Reviewer: Do we have a section that breaks down, with all the proposed changes, what we will get the size down to?

Author: Not precisely. It is mentioned in the execution plan section at the end. I don't want to make this super concrete, because we haven't done enough prototyping to be super confident in these estimates. So far, we can be reasonably confident that the proposed solutions can reduce the size by more than 100 MB. But it's hard to make a reliable estimate of future size, especially since we will keep adding more code and features to the library before the solutions proposed here are implemented.

files, are excluded and contribute very little to the size. 

| Category                       | Percentage of aws-cdk-lib size |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------ |
| .jsii files                    | 41.64%                         |
| Source Maps (.js.map)          | 21.93%                         |
| Lambda Layer zipfiles          | 15.48%                         |
| Javascript code (.js)          | 9.17%                          |
| Type Declaration files (.d.ts) | 9.15%                          |
| README, etc (.md)              | 0.76%                          |
| bundled npm dependencies       | 0.69%                          |
| .ts-fixture                    | 0.37%                          |
| .jsiirc                        | 0.36%                          |

### Why should we _not_ do this?

The main reason to not do this is that it will inevitably break up the
monolothic `aws-cdk-lib` package in some manner, and we will lose some of the
wonderful simplicity of releasing and using a single package. But, we can't keep
everything in one place, and reduce the size enough to have a significant

> positive impact.

Author: Yeah, these are good points. The current biggest contributor of size is not the Lambda Layers, they are just the biggest potential contributor. I called this out in the execution plan, but would be good to add it here. Here we should also call out the approximate size of monolithic aws-cdk-lib with all of the extra Lambda Layers. With .jsii compression and removing source maps it would still be nearly 200 MB.

> positive impact.

Reviewer: It feels like the argument of this RFC hinges on this future size that includes additional lambda layers. I think it's a bit confusing to have both current and future estimates here, and instead we should benchmark _only_ on the future estimate. Then all the sections will have the same reference point and we don't have to switch context between comapring the impact of .jsii file compression to the current size and lambda layers to the future size.

I'm open to the response "too much effort / not needed" but that's just my $0.02.

> positive impact.

Author: Hmm, I hadn't thought of it that way. Good idea. Let me switch to framing it that way, and see how it looks. I want to avoid including within the scope of work actually adding the future lambda layers. This project should just set up the mechanism to add them.

from the published npm package.

|                 | Size (MB) | Percentage of aws-cdk-lib |
| --------------- | --------- | ------------------------- |
| .jsii.tabl.json | 55.1      | 22.84 %                   |
| .jsii           | 45.35     | 18.8 %                    |

We will compress the .jsii.tabl.json and .jsii files. Compressing with gzip
currently creates a 4 MB and 4.7 MB file, respectively. This change will impact
the JSII runtime, and Construct Hub. NodeJS JSII runtimes don't need to use
either file, and non-NodeJS runtimes would decompress the .jsii file when
needed. Construct Hub generates documentation from the .jsii.tabl.json file, and
it will also decompress this file as needed.

#### Source Map Files (.js.map)

These files currently makeup 22% of the total size of `aws-cdk-lib`. Source map
files map from the transformed source to the original source. In the case of
`aws-cdk-lib`, these are not actually useful today, since we do not ship the
original .ts files. We will remove the source maps from the released package.

#### Lambda Layer Zip Files

There are three zip files included in the `aws-cdk-lib` package. They are listed in the table below.

> | Filename                                    | Includes                                                                             | Usage                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Size (MB) | Percentage of aws-cdk-lib |

Reviewer: minor nit: these calculations (along with the .jsii files one) suggests that the full module size is calculated as ~241 MB, not ~238 MB. I think we should replace the places that say 238 with 241.

Author: The current total size according to npm is 238 MB, so I'd like to leave the total at that. So, there is some other discrepancy in my numbers, I'm not sure if it's worth it to fix that. 

These calculations are approximate. The goal of having numbers here at all is to give the reader an idea for which solutions are highest priority, and whether they will actually succeed in reducing the package size significantly. The precision of the numbers is not as important. Maybe we should include a disclaimer here that all of the numbers are a little bit rough.

Reviewer: For me, first thing I did when I read 

> Note: The percentages do not add up to 100. Some files, e.g. various .json
> files, are excluded and contribute very little to the size.

was add up all the numbers to see exactly what percentage of the total size was excluded. Maybe that's just me, but I figure I'd add in a "total" section in that table in case other people have the same thought as me.

Author: Another reason for discrepancies in numbers is I calculated most of them a few releases ago, and the package size changes with every release.

Author: Added an Appendix that hopefully make this all WAY more clear. Please add more comments if not.

part of the AWS CDK framework. Together, they contribute ~16% of the size of
aws-cdk-lib. If these zips are removed, the size of aws-cdk-lib would be ~196
MB.

There are more dependencies like these that need to be added to the framework,
but we are currently blocked on adding them because they would increase the size
too much. The current known list is:

1. Additional versions of
   [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl). This is a
   pressing problem for customers using the EKS module, who are limited to a
   single version of the kubectl CLI today.
2. Additional versions of [awscli](https://pypi.org/project/awscli/). See
   [issue](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/issues/13993).
3. [Boto3](https://pypi.org/project/boto3/), and
   [aws-sdk](https://www.npmjs.com/package/aws-sdk). All custom resources in the
   AWS CDK framework currently rely on whatever version of the AWS SDK that is
   available in the Lambda runtime by default. To make the custom resources more
   robust, and allow us to choose the exact version of the AWS SDK used by them,
   we should bundle these dependencies into each custom resource’s Lambda code.

> If we add all of these with the current design, that would increase the size of `aws-cdk-lib` by ~91 MB*.

Author: Changed my mind, this is going in the main doc, based on the conversation we had in the other comment about focusing more on future size.

# Reduce aws-cdk-lib package size

* **Original Author(s):**: @madeline-k
* **Tracking Issue**: #39
* **API Bar Raiser**: tbd

The AWS CDK v2 framework library, `aws-cdk-lib` contains all packages from AWS
CDK v1 in one monolithic package. While this is a great value for customers in
making dependency management much easier, it has also resulted in increasing the
unpacked npm package size to 234 MB, at the time of writing. This feature
reduces the size of the package to under 100 MB.

## Working Backwards

* **CHANGELOG**:

feat(aws-cdk-lib): Reduce aws-cdk-lib package size.

‼️ If you use any of the following Constructs in a network-restricted
environment, you might encounter problems upgrading to this version. ‼️

* lambda_layer_kubectl.KubectlLayer
* aws_eks.KubectlProvider
* aws_eks.HelmChart
* aws_eks.KubernetesManifest
* aws_eks.KubernetesObjectValue
* aws_eks.KubernetesPatch
* lambda_layer_awscli.AwsCliLayer
* aws_s3_deployment.BucketDeploymentß
* aws_stepfunctions_tasks.EmrContainersStartJobRun
* lambda_layer_node_proxy_agent.NodeProxyAgentLayer
* aws_eks.FargateProfile
* aws_eks.Cluster

> Please see [#1234](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/issues/1234) for more details,

Reviewer 2: I guess this is meant as a placeholder, but this actually links to an unrelated issue right now 😛.

Maybe use #1234567 instead?

and comment on the issue if you run into problems.

* **CLI Notices**:

We can deliver a notice to customers based on what specific constructs they are
using. We will define separate notices for each different scenario.

Title: (aws-cdk-lib): upcoming change in packaging structure might require
action to upgrade

Body: We’ve identified that you are using at least one of the [List of
Constructs] Constructs. If you are running your aws-cdk commands in an
environment that does not have access to npm, then you will need to make a

> change to make version 2.x of [npm packages] available in your environment. See

Reviewer 3: What change is this? I feel this summary could already give some hint on what the user would need to do. Otherwise this sounds super scary before you actually read the issue.

| List of Constructs                                                                        | npm packages                                                                                            |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| KubectlLayer                                                                              | @aws-cdk/lambda-layer-kubectl                                                                           |
| KubectlProvider, HelmChart, KubernetesManifest, KubernetesObjectValue, or KubernetesPatch | @aws-cdk/lambda-layer-kubectl and @aws-cdk/lambda-layer-awscli                                          |
| AwsCliLayer, BucketDeployment, or EmrContainersStartJobRun                                | @aws-cdk/lambda-layer-awscli                                                                            |
| NodeProxyAgentLayer, or FargateProfile                                                    | @aws-cdk/lambda-layer-node-proxy-agent                                                                  |

> | aws_eks.Cluster                                                                           | @aws-cdk/lambda-layer-kubectl, @aws-cdk/lambda-layer-awscli, and @aws-cdk/lambda-layer-node-proxy-agent |

Reviewer 2: Can we use the module prefix everywhere in the table? I think it will make it easier to see on first glance. And maybe the full prefix? (`aws-cdk-lib/aws_eks`).

Maybe put each construct on its own line?

Author: Good idea, done :)

---

Ticking the box below indicates that the public API of this RFC has been
signed-off by the API bar raiser (the `api-approved` label was applied to the
RFC pull request):

```
[ ] Signed-off by API Bar Raiser @xxxxx
```

## Public FAQ

### What are we launching today?

Today, we are launching a smaller version of the AWS CDK v2 framework library,
`aws-cdk-lib`. And, a change in the AWS CDK v2 CLI to support this smaller
framework library. Before today’s release, the unpacked size of this package was
234 MB. This large size prevented many customers from being able to use it, and
caused performance problems for others. It also prevented the CDK team from
releasing certain new features. Now, the size of the package is less than 100
MB. This smaller version also has a mechanism for adding new Lambda Layer
dependencies. Because of this launch, the AWS CDK framework will be able to add
support for more versions of kubectl, and awscliv2.

### Why should I use this feature?

> You should upgrade your dependencies on `aws-cdk-lib` to get the benefits of a

Reviewer 3: Well framed!

> You should upgrade your dependencies on `aws-cdk-lib` to get the benefits of a

Reviewer 3: Well framed!

> smaller package size. If you use `aws-cdk-lib` in a lambda function, now you can

Reviewer 2: Capitalize "lambda" to "Lambda"?

(This comment applies to other places in the doc as well)

technical limitations for adding a 234 MB dependency to their package, it is a
red flag to them when considering using `aws-cdk-lib`. We should be
customer-obsessed, and solve the problem of `aws-cdk-lib` being a huge
dependency, before customers start complaining about it.

### Why is the package so large today?

There are some large assets contributing to the size of `aws-cdk-lib`, like
.jsii files, and zip files of dependencies used in custom resources. The library
also contains a huge volume of source code now that `aws-cdk-lib` combines 231
(and increasing) CDK modules. The table below breaks down the percentage that
each category of files contributes to the size of aws-cdk-lib.

Note: The percentages do not add up to 100. Some files, e.g. various .json
files, are excluded and contribute very little to the size.

| Category                       | Percentage of aws-cdk-lib size |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------ |
| .jsii files                    | 41.64%                         |
| Source Maps (.js.map)          | 21.93%                         |
| Lambda Layer zip files         | 15.48%                         |

> | Javascript code (.js)          | 9.17%                          |

Reviewer 3: Does this include `.warnings.jsii.js` files? There is some room for improvement there: if there is no warning to print for a given class, it will still generate a corresponding function, taking up unnecessary space. We can change the warnings generation in JSII to not generate these functions and not call them from the compiled .js files. But, of course, it depends on how much this particular issue contributes to the whole. Might be worth it getting some data around this.

Author: Looks like they are about 1% of the size. I don't think it's worth it to optimize those for size at this time.

> | Javascript code (.js)          | 9.17%                          |

Reviewer 3: Does this include `.warnings.jsii.js` files? There is some room for improvement there: if there is no warning to print for a given class, it will still generate a corresponding function, taking up unnecessary space. We can change the warnings generation in JSII to not generate these functions and not call them from the compiled .js files. But, of course, it depends on how much this particular issue contributes to the whole. Might be worth it getting some data around this.

There are different categories of files contributing to the size of aws-cdk-lib,
and each category will have it’s own solution. The following sections cover the
top five categories in size contribution in order from largest to smallest
potential size.

#### Lambda Layer Zip Files

Use separate npm packages for each `lambda-layer-X` module, which the CDK CLI
will automatically install if not already present in the `node_modules`
directory. With this solution, customers will not have to figure out when they
do or do not need to include these dependencies, and they will not be required
to access a public endpoint besides npm during runtime of their CDK apps.
Practically, this solution breaks down into the following steps.

1. Publish v2 compatible versions of `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-aws-cli`,
   `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-aws-cli`, `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-node-proxy-agent` as
   their own npm packages, separate from `aws-cdk-lib`.
2. Modify the `lambda-layer-X` submodules in `aws-cdk-lib` to not bundle these
   large dependencies themselves, but instead reference the appropriate `Layer`
   class from the packages in step 1. We will need to do something clever here

>    to make sure customers do not have IDE or compilation errors before the CDK

Reviewer 2: What about the development experience (working on the CDK codebase) of these modules? Probably worth it to call that out as well. Perhaps just a `devDependency` is enough, but I'm not 100% sure.

Author: With the current proposed solution, these packages will remain in the aws-cdk git repo. So we will just keep the current `devDependency` on the `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-x` packages that exists today.

   CLI has an opportunity to download and install the lambda layer packages.

> 3. Modify the CDK CLI to verify that the correct packages are available in the

Reviewer 2: Do we have any idea how will we implement that? Can we use [optional dependencies](https://betterprogramming.pub/what-are-npms-optional-dependencies-and-when-should-we-use-them-796a6a964e73)?

Author: I still need to work on a POC to see how this will actually be implemented. Thanks for the optional dependencies suggestion, that looks like it would work. I will dive deeper and then update this section!

Author: I've tested this with the [POC jsii library](https://github.com/madeline-k/dynamically-load-npm-dependencies), and if we add a package as an optional dependency, then the following happens:
1. The optional dependency is not included in the jsii packaged bundle for npm or PyPI
2. When you run `npm install` in a node project that lists the jsii library as a dependency, then the optional dependency is automatically installed as well.
3. You can run `npm install --no-optional` to avoid installing the optional dependencies
4. This has no impact on the experience for target languages (python). 

So, this would only impact TS/JS users. The argument for using optional dependencies is that this could make it easier for TS/JS users, because the optional dependencies would be installed by default. The argument against is that TS/JS users will need to change their current workflow to avoid installing things they don't need. At first, I don't think we should include this. Let's wait to see if there are real customer issues that this would alleviate.

   `node_modules` directory during synthesis. If they are not available,

>    download them from npm.

Reviewer 2: How does this work for non-NodeJS languages, that might not have a `node_modules` directory at all?

Reviewer 4: `~/.cache/cdk/large-packages` ?

Author: They still need to have a global `node_modules` directory to have the CDK CLI installed. I think we can attempt to install into the current application's `node_modules`, if there isn't one, then install into the global one. Although, will elevated permissions be required for that?

Reviewer 2: > I think we can attempt to install into the current application's `node_modules`, if there isn't one, then install into the global one. Although, will elevated permissions be required for that?

Also, won't that cause problems if the customer has multiple CDK apps with different versions on their machine?

Reviewer 5: Why not create an application level `node_modules` if it doesn't exist?

Author: The proposal has changed a bit since this conversation. The dependencies will be downloaded at runtime from the framework, not the CLI. Check out the latest version, and let me know if there is any further concerns about this topic!

Reviewer 2: Love the new direction!

4. We need to keep the dependencies up-to-date to get security updates and new
   features. Each Lambda Layer will need to be treated slightly differently.
    1. `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-kubectl` - This one has two dependencies to keep
       updated. All updates described below will result in a minor version bump
       to this package.
        1. [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)
            1. Kubernetes users will need to be able to choose the minor version
               of kubectl that they want to use. And the aws-eks module will
               need to as well.

>             2. The public API for this package will have a `KubectlV1_20Layer`

Reviewer 3: Are we planning to extend this mechanism to arbitrary lambda layers? Suppose I'm a member of the community and I want to write a new custom resource that depends on a different lambda layer. Am I allowed to do this? If so, what are the steps I should take to get the lambda layer available for consumption?

>             2. The public API for this package will have a `KubectlV1_20Layer`

Reviewer 3: Are we planning to extend this mechanism to arbitrary lambda layers? Suppose I'm a member of the community and I want to write a new custom resource that depends on a different lambda layer. Am I allowed to do this? If so, what are the steps I should take to get the lambda layer available for consumption?

Author: I added this to the section, but it is still a bit hard to define until we actually implement this. Open to ideas on how to make those steps more concrete at this point.

           result in a minor version bump of this package.
    3. `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-node-proxy-agent` - New minor versions will
       automatically be picked up and available with a minor version bump of the
       library.
        1. This can be implemented with `npm-check-updates`, since
           `node-proxy-agent` is an npm package.
    4. AWS CDK v2 will automatically pick up new minor versions of the above
       libraries.

##### What about customers executing their CDK apps in network-restricted environments?

This question raises an important drawback of this solution. It will result in a
breaking change for customers who are using these Lambda Layers in
network-restricted environments. If customers are able to use the CDK CLI in
their network-restricted environments, then it is reasonable to assume they were
able to acquire the `aws-cdk` package from npm somehow. This implies customers
will be able to also acquire the lambda layer packages from npm. They can either
make sure the necessary packages are already installed and available in the
`node_modules` directory where their CDK applications are executed, or include

> them in a private npm registry.

Reviewer 2: I think they can just depend on these packages directly in their CDK app, right? That will solve this problem?

I guess it doesn't solve it for non-NodeJS languages...

Author: Good idea, that's another easier solution for them. For non-NodeJS languages,customers still have to download the CLI from npm... I'm still not 100% clear on how they will workaround this.

Author: @skinny85 , you were right! They can depend on the packages directly from their CDK app, and it will work both for NodeJS and non-NodeJS languages. Non-Node users will just add direct dependencies in the same manner that they  usually do (Pip, Maven, etc). See this repo for the POC: https://github.com/madeline-k/dynamically-load-npm-dependencies

Unfortunately, there is no way to remove these large files and host them
somewhere else without causing a breaking change for these customers. We will
publish a CLI notice directly to potentially-affected customers of this change
well in advance of releasing it. And, advertise the change in advance of release
on the aws-cdk GitHub repository.

##### What about customers in ADC regions?

Today, there is a mechanism for publishing AWS CDK into ADC (Amazon Dedicated
Cloud) regions. This mechanism includes bundling the direct dependencies of the
CDK and publishing them into the ADC regions, e.g. `constructs`. We will add the
lambda-layer packages to this process, and when customers use the aws-cdk npm
package in ADC regions, the right dependencies will already be present in the
`node_modules` directory.

#### .jsii Files

There are two files, .jsii.tabl.json and .jsii, bundled in `aws-cdk-lib` for the
JSII runtime to work for any non-NodeJS languages. And, to enable code and

> documentation generation from the published npm package. Today, they makeup 42%

Reviewer: ```suggestion
documentation generation from the published npm package. Today, they make up 42%
```

> of the package size. And in the future, after adding more Lambda Layers would
> compose 30%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the package size. And in the future, after adding more Lambda Layers, the .jsii files would
compose 30% of the package size.
```

We will compress the .jsii.tabl.json and .jsii files. Compressing with gzip
currently creates a 4 MB and 4.7 MB file, respectively. This change will impact
the JSII runtime, and Construct Hub. NodeJS JSII runtimes don't need to use
either file, and non-NodeJS runtimes would decompress the .jsii file when
needed. Construct Hub generates documentation from the .jsii.tabl.json file, and
it will also decompress this file as needed.

#### Source Map Files (.js.map)

These files currently makeup 22% of the total size of `aws-cdk-lib`. Source map
files map from the transformed source to the original source. In the case of
`aws-cdk-lib`, these are not actually useful today, since we do not ship the
original `.ts` files. We will remove the source maps from the released package.

#### Javascript Files (.js)

The Javascript files make up about 10% of the overall package size. Today, they
are already minified in the released package. There is not much else that can be

> done to make them smaller.

Reviewer 6: It might be possible that we could make the JavaScript files smaller by reducing the amount of code in them. Specifically, if we change the ECMAScript version targeted by JSII/TypeScript, we could reduce the amount of polyfills that are added. (If I run `grep -r '"target": "ES' .` in the root of the the aws cdk repo, it looks as though we're mostly targeting ES2018 -- but the minimum version of Node we support is 14, which I believe supports all of the features in ES2019).

All that said, changing this might not make much of a dent. 🤷‍♂️

Reviewer 6: I think the change would be updating all of the `tsconfig.json` files in the repo. Unfortunately I'm not sure which polyfills are currently added.

Reviewer 4: @Chriscbr do you want to take a stab at figuring out the impact of a change like this?

   the aws-cdk-lib package, we want to reduce the volume of artifacts we publish
   to npm and other package managers in total. This would be in direct conflict
   with that goal by doubling the amount of content that is published on each
   release. And, there is currently no demonstrated customer need for a debug
   package like this.

#### Lambda Layer Zip Files

1. Host the zip files in a static website. This would be implemented as a CDK
   app in a new GitHub repository. The CDK CLI will download and cache these zip
   files at synth time. The existing `lambda-layer-X` modules will be modified
   to reference the large dependencies from a local cache. The CDK CLI will be
   modified to update that cache at synth time, if needed. Then, the rest of
   their usage will remain the same. The URLs for each dependency would follow a
   predictable format, including each dependency’s version. Some automated
   mechanism would be required to add new artifacts to the website, as new
   versions of each dependency are released. And, to add new versions of each
   dependency to aws-cdk-lib. The problem with this solution is that it requires

>    access to a public endpoint during synth of CDK applications. Many customers

Reviewer 2: > The problem with this solution is that it requires
   access to a public endpoint during synth of CDK applications.

Doesn't the proposed chosen solution suffer from the some problem?

Author: True. I need a better way to phrase this. The chosen solution is slightly better because the public endpoint is one that we already know customers will have access to.

# Reduce aws-cdk-lib package size

* **Original Author(s):**: @madeline-k
* **Tracking Issue**: #39
* **API Bar Raiser**: tbd

The AWS CDK v2 framework library, `aws-cdk-lib` contains all packages from AWS
CDK v1 in one monolithic package. While this is a great value for customers in
making dependency management much easier, it has also resulted in increasing the
unpacked npm package size to 234 MB, at the time of writing. This feature

> reduces the size of the package to under 100 MB.

Author: I was thinking this is a somewhat conservative estimate based on the size reduction we can expect from each section below. However, it is really hard to predict what the size will actually be after we've implemented it. We could either add an Appendix to explicitly justify why it will end up under 100 MB, or remove it entirely. What do you think?

> reduces the size of the package to under 100 MB.

Author: Removed, let me know if you disagree.

monolothic `aws-cdk-lib` package in some manner, and we will lose some of the
wonderful simplicity of releasing and using a single package. But, we can't keep
everything in one place, and reduce the size enough to have a significant
positive impact.

### What is the technical solution (design) of this feature?

There are different categories of files contributing to the size of aws-cdk-lib,
and each category will have it’s own solution. The following sections cover the
top five categories in size contribution in order from largest to smallest
potential size.

#### Lambda Layer Zip Files

Use separate npm packages for each `lambda-layer-X` module, which the CDK CLI
will automatically install if not already present in the `node_modules`
directory. With this solution, customers will not have to figure out when they
do or do not need to include these dependencies, and they will not be required
to access a public endpoint besides npm during runtime of their CDK apps.
Practically, this solution breaks down into the following steps.

1. Publish v2 compatible versions of `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-aws-cli`,
   `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-aws-cli`, `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-node-proxy-agent` as

>    their own npm packages, separate from `aws-cdk-lib`.

Reviewer: will these versions still live in the `aws-cdk` repo? will a new version get released with every `aws-cdk` release or will they be decoupled?

Author: Just saw this comment - It should still be part of `aws-cdk` repo. Added some more detail on this.

Unfortunately, there is no way to remove these large files and host them
somewhere else without causing a breaking change for these customers. We will
publish a CLI notice directly to potentially-affected customers of this change
well in advance of releasing it. And, advertise the change in advance of release
on the aws-cdk GitHub repository.

##### What about customers in ADC regions?

Today, there is a mechanism for publishing AWS CDK into ADC (Amazon Dedicated
Cloud) regions. This mechanism includes bundling the direct dependencies of the
CDK and publishing them into the ADC regions, e.g. `constructs`. We will add the
lambda-layer packages to this process, and when customers use the aws-cdk npm
package in ADC regions, the right dependencies will already be present in the
`node_modules` directory.

#### .jsii Files

There are two files, .jsii.tabl.json and .jsii, bundled in `aws-cdk-lib` for the
JSII runtime to work for any non-NodeJS languages. And, to enable code and
documentation generation from the published npm package. Today, they makeup 42 %
of the package size. And in the future, after adding more Lambda Layers would

> still compose 30%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
documentation generation from the published npm package. Today, they make up 42%
of the package size. And in the future, after adding more Lambda Layers, .jsii files would
still compose 30% of the total size.
```

    1. The v2 release currently gets this warning when publishing for Go. `Go:
       remote: warning: File awscdk/jsii/aws-cdk-lib-2.17.0.tgz is 55.42 MB;
       this is larger than GitHub's recommended maximum file size of 50.00 MB`
    2. NPM itself does not have a package size limit, but other services that
       host NPM packages do. For example, [Azure
       Artifacts](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/artifacts/reference/limits?view=azure-devops)
       has a limit of 500 MB.
    3. PyPi has an unofficially documented limit of 60 MB.
2. A large download size might be problematic for customers with weak internet
   connections or limited bandwidth.
3. Customers who download and install `aws-cdk-lib` on every CI/CD pipeline run
   may be frustrated to spend resources frequently downloading a large package.
4. AWS Lambda limits the size of your function code to 250 MB.
5. The AWS Lambda limit for all uploaded assets for a Function is 75 GB. If a
   customer is using Lambda Versions, and wants to maintain a Version for every
   version they have published, they might end up hitting this limit because of
   the large size of `aws-cdk-lib`.

> 6. The developer experience of using `aws-cdk-lib` in an IDE might be slower in

Reviewer 4: Pretty sure this one is not going to be true. If this is the case, it will be because of the large swathes of tiny `.d.ts` files, not a couple of large `.zip` files.

Author: Hmm okay, I will just remove this then. I think we have enough other data for why we need to do this project.

each category of files contributes to the size of aws-cdk-lib.

Note: The percentages do not add up to 100. Some files, e.g. various .json
files, are excluded and contribute very little to the size.

| Category                       | Percentage of aws-cdk-lib size |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------ |
| .jsii files                    | 41.64%                         |
| Source Maps (.js.map)          | 21.93%                         |
| Lambda Layer zip files         | 15.48%                         |
| Javascript code (.js)          | 9.17%                          |
| Type Declaration files (.d.ts) | 9.15%                          |
| README, etc (.md)              | 0.76%                          |
| bundled npm dependencies       | 0.69%                          |
| .ts-fixture                    | 0.37%                          |
| .jsiirc                        | 0.36%                          |

### Why is the package going to be larger in the future?

The CDK team is currently blocked on adding more Lambda Layer zip files to the
AWS CDK framework, because adding them would dramatically increase the size of

> the package. Each of these zips are in a module whose only purpose is to bundle

Reviewer 7: I'm not sure I fully understand the plan here: Is the plan to reduce the package size so that it can be increased again with these layers? If so, then the arguments here are contradictory: We won't achieve both adding the layers and the benefits mentioned above of smaller package size at the same time.
Also, then the problem will come up again once there is a new layer which reaches the limit again.

Author: I need to clarify this better in the doc, since you are asking, it must not be clear! But the goal is to remove large dependencies for these layers, and also create a mechanism for adding more layers in the same manner. So that we can add more Lambda Layer dependencies without ballooning the package size after this project is implemented.

Author: I've added some more detail in this section to explain. Thanks for your comment @dbartholomae!

1. Additional versions of
   [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl). This is a
   pressing problem for customers using the EKS module, who are limited to a
   single version of the kubectl CLI today.
2. Additional versions of [awscli](https://pypi.org/project/awscli/). See
   [issue](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/issues/13993).
3. [Boto3](https://pypi.org/project/boto3/), and
   [aws-sdk](https://www.npmjs.com/package/aws-sdk). All custom resources in the
   AWS CDK framework currently rely on whatever version of the AWS SDK that is
   available in the Lambda runtime by default. To make the custom resources more
   robust, and allow us to choose the exact version of the AWS SDK used by them,
   we should bundle these dependencies into each custom resource’s Lambda code.

If we add all of these with the current design, that would increase the size of
`aws-cdk-lib` by approximately 130 MiB*, and make the Lambda Layers the biggest
contributor of size at 39%.

*See Appendix A to see where this estimate came from.

| Category                       | Percentage of aws-cdk-lib size |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------ |

> | Lambda Layer zip files         | 38.83%                         |

Reviewer 4: If this table is intended to show the new distribution AFTER hypothetical future changes, I'm not sure that's necessary. The text is sufficient, and this table confused me initially because the numbers were so much different from the previous one. 

If you do want to show this data, combine it into 1 table I suppose.

Author: I think this table is necessary to show why it is important to address the lambda layer zips. If not for the future things we want to add, then we could just address the .jsii files and remove the source maps and call it a day.

Author: I am not sure how to logically combine this into one table and still have it makes sense in the flow of the doc. I change the title of the 2nd column of this one. Does that help make it less confusing? How would you like to see it represented?

Author: Resolving this comment, please re-open if you have a suggestion here.

| .jsii files                    | 30.14%                         |
| Source Maps (.js.map)          | 15.87%                         |
| Javascript code (.js)          | 6.63%                          |
| Type Declaration files (.d.ts) | 6.62%                          |
| README, etc (.md)              | 0.55%                          |
| bundled npm dependencies       | 0.50%                          |
| .ts-fixture                    | 0.27%                          |
| .jsiirc                        | 0.26%                          |

### Why should we _not_ do this?

The main reason to not do this is that it will inevitably break up the
monolothic `aws-cdk-lib` package in some manner, and we will lose some of the
wonderful simplicity of releasing and using a single package. But, we can't keep
everything in one place, and reduce the size enough to have a significant
positive impact.

### What is the technical solution (design) of this feature?

There are different categories of files contributing to the size of aws-cdk-lib,

> and each category will have it’s own solution. The following sections cover the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
and each category will have its own solution. The following sections cover the
```

Author: Oof, that's embarrassing 😂

top five categories in size contribution in order from largest to smallest
potential size.

#### Lambda Layer Zip Files

Use separate npm packages for each `lambda-layer-X` module, which the CDK CLI

> will automatically install if not already present in the `node_modules`

Reviewer 4: Needs a bit of elaboration on how the CLI will know what it needs to install, and how the app will know what has been installed and where.

Author: I am no longer planning to use the CLI for installing/downloading.

> directory. With this solution, customers will not have to figure out when they

Reviewer 4: Or globally installed.

do or do not need to include these dependencies, and they will not be required
to access a public endpoint besides npm during runtime of their CDK apps.
Practically, this solution breaks down into the following steps.

1. Publish v2 compatible versions of `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-aws-cli`,
   `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-aws-cli`, `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-node-proxy-agent` as
   their own npm packages, separate from `aws-cdk-lib`. This publishing process
   will be an extension of the existing AWS CDK V2 release machinery. Any
   submodules with the prefix `lambda-layer` will be published the same way.
2. Modify the `lambda-layer-X` submodules in `aws-cdk-lib` to not bundle these
   large dependencies themselves, but instead reference the appropriate `Layer`
   class from the packages in step 1. Since `aws-cdk-lib`'s source code is
   auto-generated from the v1 submodules, this could be an autogenerated
   wrapper. We will need to do something clever here to make sure customers do
   not have IDE or compilation errors before the CDK CLI has an opportunity to

>    download and install the packages.

Reviewer 4: If the external NPM package is just the binary (with some wrapping JS to interface with), this would be trivial.

Author: Yeah you are right. This package will be the `Layer` construct including the binary, but it will still be an implementation detail of the constructs exposed in `aws-cdk-lib`. Updated this section.

3. Modify the CDK CLI to verify that the correct packages are available in the
   `node_modules` directory during synthesis. If they are not available,
   download them from npm.
4. We need to keep the dependencies up-to-date to get security updates and new
   features. Each Lambda Layer will need to be treated slightly differently.

>     1. `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-kubectl` - This one has two dependencies to keep

Reviewer 4: Why don't we have `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-kubectl-120` and `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-kubectl-122` etc?

Author: I didn't think about this. I was thinking it makes logical sense to group all versions of one dependency into the same package. But it might actually be simpler to manage if they are separate. What do you think will be the major difference between the two options?

Author: I've given this some more thought, and I think it will be best to have separate libraries for each minor version like you suggested. This way, the runtime only needs to download the kubectl version(s) that will actually be used. Updated the doc to reflect this.

               versions of kubectl. If there is one, a PR will be automatically
               created which creates a new `Layer` class in the API for the new
               minor version. A human will need to review this one.
        2. [helm](https://helm.sh/) is also included in each Lambda Layer in
           this package
            1. Helm has a somewhat complicated version support policy documented
               [here](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/version_skew/).
            2. For each `KubectlVX_YLayer` class, we will include the latest
               available version of Helm which is compatible with that version
               of Kubernetes.
            3. A weekly automated task will update the minor and patch versions
               of helm within the supported ranges.
            4. The automated task that checks for new supported minor versions
               of kubectl, will also attempt to figure out what is the latest
               version of helm compatible with that version of kubectl. This
               will be verified by a human in PR review to make sure it is
               correct.

>     2. `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-aws-cli` - Major versions 1 and 2 will both be

Reviewer 4: Also here why not 2 packages?

Author: Good point here as well! Updated the doc :)

somewhere else without causing a breaking change for these customers. We will
publish a CLI notice directly to potentially-affected customers of this change
well in advance of releasing it. And, advertise the change in advance of release
on the aws-cdk GitHub repository.

##### What about customers in ADC regions?

Today, there is a mechanism for publishing AWS CDK into ADC (Amazon Dedicated
Cloud) regions. This mechanism includes bundling the direct dependencies of the
CDK and publishing them into the ADC regions, e.g. `constructs`. We will add the
`@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-X` packages to this process, and when customers use the aws-cdk npm
package in ADC regions, the right dependencies will already be present in the
`node_modules` directory.

#### .jsii Files

There are two files, .jsii.tabl.json and .jsii, bundled in `aws-cdk-lib` for the
JSII runtime to work for any non-NodeJS languages. And, to enable code and
documentation generation from the published npm package. Today, they make up 42%
of the package size. And in the future, after adding more Lambda Layers, the .jsii files would
compose 30% of the package size.

> We will compress the .jsii.tabl.json and .jsii files. Compressing with gzip

Reviewer 4: Is this valuable? I would argue it doesn't matter, since the download size will always be the already-compressed size. 

If we're going to do anything, we should probably try to find a more efficient encoding of the assembly format (with less redundancy), potentially stop pretty-printing it.

Author: The "unpacked" npm size is also important. I think this is a concrete step we should take right now to improve that. We can still pursue a more efficient assembly format as well. I am not sure what the options are there, and haven't done any investigation into it. Do you have any ideas?

Reviewer 4: Even though download size is the more important metric, reducing unpacked size will have some benefits for disk usage of projects (and the aforementioned 250MB Lambda footprint limit--even though it's possible to work around that limit, let's try to not force people to have to do that). Compressing is an easy way to get that size down, so why not.

One thing I missed originally is that the JSII manifest embedded in NPM packages will not (typically) be used at runtime. It will only be loaded by jsii build tooling--and this is especially true for tablets: so gzipping them will not usually have a big performance impact.

The only place we need to pay attention is jsii client languages. The Python bundle currently looks like this (containing the full NPM package, this pattern is repeated for all jsii languages):

```
┌───────────────────────────────────────────────────┐                    
│                  aws_cdk_lib.whl                  │                    
├───────────────────────────────────────────────────┤                    
│                                                   │                    
│                                                   │                    
│                                                   │                    
│               ┌───────────────────────────────┐   │                    
│               │     aws-cdk-lib.jsii.tgz      │   │                    
│               ├───────────────────────────────┤   │                    
│               │                               │   │                    
│   ┌──────┐    │  ┌──────┐   ┌─────────────┐   │   │       jsii kernel  
│   │ *.py │    │  │ *.js │   │    .jsii    │◀──┼───┼─────   needs this  
│   └──────┘    │  └──────┘   └─────────────┘   │   │           file     
│               │                               │   │                    
│               │   ┌───────────────────────┐   │   │                    
│               │   │    .jsii.tabl.json    │◀──┼───┼─────  nobody needs 
│               │   └───────────────────────┘   │   │        this file.  
│               │                               │   │         kill it.   
│               └───────────────────────────────┘   │                    
│                                                   │                    
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────┘                    
```

Two observations:

- The `.jsii.tabl.json` file is in there, which nobody needs. We can totally remove it to save a bunch of space.
- The jsii kernel is going to need to load the `.jsii` file, which turns into a `.jsii.gz` file if we go through with the compression strategy, paying a small performance penalty to load and gunzip the library on startup (we need to quantify how much this costs!). Either that or we put the uncompressed version in the jsii client archive, but then our disk space savings only materialize for TypeScript users, not any other language users.

Reviewer 8: The tablet file is used by ConstructHub to not time out when generating documentation...

Author: Thanks for confirming that we need to keep the table file, @RomainMuller .

currently creates a 4 MB and 4.7 MB file, respectively. This change will impact
the JSII runtime, and Construct Hub. NodeJS JSII runtimes don't need to use
either file, and non-NodeJS runtimes would decompress the .jsii file when
needed. Construct Hub generates documentation from the .jsii.tabl.json file, and
it will also decompress this file as needed.

#### Source Map Files (.js.map)

These files currently makeup 22% of the total size of `aws-cdk-lib`. Source map
files map from the transformed source to the original source. In the case of
`aws-cdk-lib`, these are not actually useful today, since we do not ship the
original `.ts` files. We will remove the source maps from the released package.

#### Javascript Files (.js)

The Javascript files make up about 10% of the overall package size. Today, they
are already minified in the released package. There is not much else that can be
done to make them smaller.

#### Type Declaration Files (.d.ts)

> We can minify these files, which could result in a space saving of up to 20 MB.

Reviewer 4: This is a tempting number, but people command-clicking to CDK definitions will end up in a file with unreadable garbage. Not sure this would be worth it.

I wonder if there are gains to be had if we combine the `.d.ts` files for submodules together (into 1 file per submodule). I'm guessing this would lead to better compression, though the difference might not be very significant. If nothing else,  would have performance gains as well for downstream `tsc` invocations, since the compiler wouldn't have to read so many files.

Author: Oh, I thought we only needed to worry about API reference in IDEs. But yes this will be an issue as well.

the files. The 20 MB number was collected by removing all new-line and
whitespace characters. In reality, we will need to do something slightly more
sophisticated and keep whitespace in documentation comments, so that
type-checking in IDEs still has readable type references.

### Is this a breaking change?

Yes, see CHANGELOG and CLI Notice sections. The solution for the Lambda Layer
zip files will have a breaking change for customers executing CDK applications
that use the Lambda Layers in some network-restricted environments. Most
alternative solutions will also have a breaking change for these customers. The
proposed solution will have the easiest migration path for these customers.

### What alternative solutions did you consider?

Each category of files has different alternative solutions to reduce the size.

#### .jsii Files

1. The .jsii.tabl.json  and .jsii files are both “pretty-printed.” We can reduce
   their size to 42 MB (-23%) and 30 MB (-33%) by removing all the whitespace
   and newlines. We will not take this solution, because the space savings is
   not as significant as compression. And, then we can maintain the benefit of

>    using pretty-printed JSON when uncompressed.

Reviewer 4: I would argue the benefit of pretty-printed JSON isn't that large, and depending on the JSON decoded/parser loading the files would be faster if we strip whitespace. Might not be a big impact, but probably won't hurt either.

I would be in favor of this I think.

Author: So humans never look at these files? In that case, I agree, we should stop pretty-printing. Currently thinking in addition to the compression.

   that point, we might need to invent more creative solutions to reduce the
   size, or implement some of the alternative solutions outlined here.

2. This solution has a breaking change for some customers. Until we get some
   feedback from the community on this RFC, we don't know for sure if the
   proposed migration for those customers is reasonable.

### What is the high-level project plan?

Each category of files can be worked on in parallel and addressed separately.
The highest priority category to start with will be the Lambda Layer zip files.
Even though the Lambda Layers are not the biggest contributor to size today,
they are the biggest potential contributor to size. And, there is customer need
to add more Lambda Layers, which we are not able to do until the large
dependencies are not required to be bundled in aws-cdk-lib.

The next category will be the .jsii files. After both of these solutions are
implemented, the the aws-cdk-lib unpacked npm package size will be about 100 MB.

The lowest priority category will be removing the Source Map files and minifying
the Type Declaration files. The final size of the package after this work is

> still to be determined.

Reviewer 4: It's low priority but let's do it early on anyway, it's an easy win for about 5 minutes of work!

Author: Yes, definitely agree with you. This section only describes priority, they can all be done in parallel. So I don't think this plan prevents us from doing it early on. Do I need to specify that?

Work will be tracked on [this project
board](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/projects/15).

## Appendix A - Notes on size calculations

1. All size calculations in this document were done based on
   `aws-cdk-lib@2.19.0`.

> 2. `du -k` was used to get sizes in Kb (Kebibytes), for calculating the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. `du -k` was used to get sizes in Kb (Kibibytes), for calculating the
```

🤓

steps.
1. Add a new directory in the `aws-cdk` monorepo: `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-MyNewDependency`.
2. Implement the MyNewDependencyLayer API.
3. If the dependency is from npm, then updates will happen automatically. If it
   is from some other source, then extend the automation
   from the above steps to also update the new dependency.

Once this solution is implemented, it will be possible to write more concrete
steps. And those will be included in the Contributing Guide.

##### What about customers executing their CDK apps in network-restricted environments?

This question raises an important drawback of this solution. It will result in a
breaking change for customers who are using these Lambda Layers in
network-restricted environments. If customers are able to use the CDK CLI in
their network-restricted environments, then it is reasonable to assume they were
able to acquire the `aws-cdk` package from npm somehow. This implies customers
will be able to acquire the `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-X` packages from npm. There
are a few options for these customers:
1. If using TypeScript or JavaScript, add each necessary package the

>    dependencies of their CDK app.

Reviewer 5: [Above](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk-rfcs/pull/430/files#diff-94270ba514d2edadf1d22d85d22900af665e6aa9cbc8ecbea733105b83d39d35R219-R221) it says that we would automatically install the lambda layer dependencies. Why are we explaining how customers can go install these manually here?

Author: This is for customers using the CDK in environments where we *can't* automatically download these for them. So we need to provide a manual workaround for them. Let me know if that's not clear from the doc!

2. Make sure the necessary packages are already installed and available in the
   `node_modules` directory where their CDK CLI is installed.

> 3. Include them in a private npm registry. The 

Reviewer 5: leftover 'The'?

Author: Thanks for catching!

   published this way. Even though these packages will be released separately,
   their source code will remain in the aws-cdk repo.
2. Modify the `lambda-layer-X` submodules in `aws-cdk-lib` to not bundle these
   large dependencies themselves, and instead dynamically load the appropriate
   `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-X` package from step 1. Since `aws-cdk-lib`'s source
   code is auto-generated from the v1 submodules, this logic should be
   implemented once, and then autogenerated or reused in each
   `aws-cdk-lib/lambda-layer-X` submodule wrapper. The first two steps should
   not impact the current developer workflow of working with these `Layer`
   constructs. Developers will work with each `@aws-cdk` module in its
   corresponding source directory. The publishing pipeline will publish the
   `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-X` packages, and the `aws-cdk-lib` code generation
   process will create the wrappers that reference them.
    1. I have implemented a POC that shows the proposed dynamic loading
       mechanism will work with node languages and jsii target languages. See
       [this
       repo](https://github.com/madeline-k/dynamically-load-npm-dependencies)

>        for more details.

Reviewer 2: It's so awesome that you managed to implement this, nice work! 😊

Reviewer 9: How will we know which version of the `lambda-layer-X` package to install at synth time? We have to lock it somehow otherwise users get a non deterministic build. I have some ideas but wondering if you considered this.

Reviewer 2: We can probably use the same version as the package the depends on `lambda-layer-X` has. But I agree it's non-trivial to get out that information (we'll probably have to do some `package.json` parsing in the "dynamic require" code.

Author: Yes, turns out package.json reflection is the way to go for this one. I've started implementing it for one of the layers in this PR: https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/pull/21799

After you both raised this question, I realized this also affects how we release the `lamdba-layer-X` packages! I summarized the options in this issue https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/issues/21605, and also updated the RFC to reflect the decision.

   customer does not need to download the zip file and then re-upload it to
   their deployment environment. Instead, the Lambda Layer or Lambda Function
   resource definition in their CloudFormation template references the zip
   hosted by us in the same region as their deployment environment. The
   maintenance burden of keeping up with deploying these artifacts and keeping
   them up to date in every AWS region is too high. This would effectively make
   our team double as a hosted artifact repository for artifacts that we don't
   own. This solution is the same as the one described in this
   [comment](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk-rfcs/issues/39#issuecomment-593092612).
4. Separate packages that `aws-cdk-lib` peer depends on. With this solution,
   customers do not need to include the large `lambda-layer-X` packages in their
   dependencies unless they are actually using one of the Constructs that
   requires them. This would be confusing for customers to know when they need
   these peer dependencies, and when they do not. It would also be difficult for
   customers to manage versions and to know which versions of each package are
   compatible with each other.

> 5. Upstream the custom resources where the zip files are used. Since all of

Reviewer 9: A similar approach that suffers from them same problem would have been to setup an internal pipeline that publishes AWS provided layers, such as:

![Screen Shot 2022-07-17 at 3 57 08 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1428812/179399436-168d5fe2-9947-4b83-9851-c48c6a39cef1.png)

Thought I'd put it on here anyway for posterity. Also - it might be worth while investigating how exactly this later is published.

Author: Good callout, I did look into this approach. It basically has the same drawbacks as an internal pipeline publishing to s3. I heard from someone, but did not verify myself, that with Lambda Layers, you publish under your own account id, and so it is not possible to use convention-based naming.

Author: I added this solution to the list of alternatives.

            2. For each `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-kubectl-XYZ` package, we will
               include the latest available version of Helm which is compatible
               with that version of Kubernetes.
            3. A weekly automated task will update the minor and patch versions
               of helm within the supported ranges.
            4. The automated task that checks for new supported minor versions
               of kubectl, will also attempt to figure out what is the latest
               version of helm compatible with that version of kubectl. This
               will be verified by a human in PR review to make sure it is
               correct.
    2. AWS CLI - We will release two separate packages to make major versions 1
       and 2 both available, and automatically update to the latest minor or
       patch version.
        1. Two packages: `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-aws-cli-v1`, and
           `@aws-cdk/lambda-layer-aws-cli-v2`.
        2. Automatically check for new minor and patch versions from PyPi -
           [awscli](https://pypi.org/project/awscli/),
           [awscliv2](https://pypi.org/project/awscliv2/). Each update will

>            result in a minor version bump of the corresponding package.

Reviewer: should i change this to reflect the actual awscliv2 implementation?

Author: Yes! It would be great if you could add that!
